Cluster links API and CLI (#14884)
canonical/lxd: doc/howto/cluster_links.md

---
discourse: lxc:[Cluster&#32;links](placeholder)
---

(howto-cluster-links)=
# How to set up cluster links

> {ref}`cluster-links` allow you to connect separate LXD clusters to enable scaling beyond the ~50 member limit of a single cluster. This provides various benefits such as extended capacity, failover capabilities, disaster recovery options, and geographically distributed backups.

Reviewer: No need to duplicate what's in the clusters.md explanation page; instead, linking below

For example, to create a more restricted group for backup operations only:

```bash
lxc auth group create backup
lxc auth group permission add backup instance can_manage_backups
lxc auth group permission add backup instance can_manage_backups
```

## Create a cluster link

To create a new cluster link between two clusters (Cluster A and Cluster B), follow these steps on both clusters:

1. On Cluster A, create a new cluster link and get a trust token:

   ```bash
   lxc cluster link add cluster_b --auth-group clusters
   ```

   This command:
   - Creates a pending identity for Cluster B
   - Assigns this identity to the specified authentication group
   - Returns a trust token that you'll need for the next step

1. On Cluster B, create a cluster link using the trust token from Cluster A:

   ```bash
   lxc cluster link add cluster_a <token from A> --auth-group clusters
   ```

   This:
   - Verifies the token's fingerprint against Cluster A's certificate
   - Creates an identity for Cluster A and assigns it to the specified authentication group

>    - Activates the pending link on Cluster A by sending Cluster B's certificate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Activates the pending link with Cluster A by sending Cluster B's certificate
```

   - Establishes bidirectional trust between the clusters

## Understanding the underlying identities

> When you create a cluster link, LXD automatically creates an identity for authentication. You can view this identity with:

Reviewer: Does this only ever show this single identity? If so, why `identity list` and not `identity show`?

```bash
lxc auth identity list
```

> The output will show an identity of type `Cluster link certificate` with the name of your cluster link.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The output shows the identity of your cluster link, with the type `Cluster link certificate`.
```
We've previously just called it the "identity", so I would prefer not to use the word "name" all of a sudden.

> ## Manage cluster link permissions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(howto-cluster-links-permissions)=
## Manage cluster link permissions
```

> You can modify the permissions of a cluster link by adding its identity to authentication groups:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To modify the permissions of a cluster link, add its identity to authentication groups:
```

> 

Author: Add usage section once cluster replicas PR is merged.

> ## View cluster links

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(howto-cluster-links-view)=
## View cluster links
```

To view all cluster links for your cluster, use the following command:

```bash
lxc cluster link list
```

This shows all links along with their addresses.

To view detailed information about a specific cluster link:

```bash
lxc cluster link show <cluster-name>
```

> ## Modify a cluster link

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(howto-cluster-links-modify)=
## Modify a cluster link
```

> You can modify a cluster link's description or addresses using the `edit` command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To modify a cluster link's description or addresses, use the `edit` command:
```

```bash
lxc cluster link edit <cluster-name>
```

> Alternatively, you can use the `set` command to modify specific properties:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, use the `set` command to modify specific properties:
```

```bash
lxc cluster link set <cluster-name> <key> <value>
```

> 

Reviewer: What keys are available?

Author: I think we should link to a separate page for cluster link configuration, similar to how we link to cluster configuration in this section: https://documentation.ubuntu.com/lxd/latest/howto/cluster_manage/#configure-your-cluster.

Author: There are currently no configuration keys that can be set for cluster links, so we can remove this from the documentation for now. This will probably change in the future.

Reviewer 2: @kadinsayani the majority of entity types support a config table with `user.*` keys. Do cluster links support `user.*` keys and if so we should document that?

Author: There is currently no `cluster_links_config` table or support for `user.*` keys. I will add this and update the documentation.

For example, to update the description:

```bash
lxc cluster link set cluster_b description "Backup cluster in data center 2"
```

> ## Remove a cluster link

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(howto-cluster-links-remove)=
## Remove a cluster link
```

To remove a cluster link, use the following command:

```bash
lxc cluster link remove <cluster-name>
```

> This removes the established trust between the clusters and deletes the associated identity. To fully disconnect the clusters, you should perform this operation on both clusters:

Reviewer: Deletes the associated identity of both clusters or just the remote cluster?

> ```bash

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```{code-block} bash
:caption: On cluster A
lxc cluster link remove cluster_b
```

```{code-block} bash
:caption: On cluster B
lxc cluster link remove cluster_a
````
```

> # On Cluster A

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> lxc cluster link remove cluster_b

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> # On Cluster B

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> lxc cluster link remove cluster_a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
